# MassBuilds Scripts
## Signing up for a User Account
Hello, and welcome to MassBuilds. The Metropolitan Area Planning Council's database of  real estate development projects. In this video we'll teach you how to create a user account on the MassBuilds website. For best performance, we recommend using Google Chrome to access Massbuilds at www.MassBuilds.com. .

Once you navigate to the website you'll see a map of Massachusetts. If you haven’t visited the site before, we’ll present you with a welcome message and you’ll be invited to  continue to the development map. If you click the menu button in the upper right corner, you’ll reveal the login for MassBuilds. This is where existing users can login.

Below the login for existing users, there’s a sign up link for someone that does not have an account. To create an account, we’ll ask you for a couple pieces of information: your first name, your last name, an email address, and then you will have to pick a password. You will want to pick a password that long enough to be secure and also memorable.

At the bottom you will have the option to request verified status. If you are a member of your state, city, or town government you will be able to request a verified status so you can add developments in your region. So if you want to request verified status just click the radio button and after that then click sign-up. Once you click sign-up you will be logged into the development database.
+++
## Searching for a Development
In this video we'll teach you how to search for a development in MassBuilds, the Metropolitan Area Planning Council's collaborative database of real estate developments in Massachusetts. When you go to the MassBuilds website at www.massbuilds.com you will be taken to the statewide development map. Each dot represents a development in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

In the upper left hand corner is a convenient search bar so that you can search for different developments. inside the search bar you have the option to search for different municipalities or names of developments in case you want to find something specific.

You can see as I type the word Cambridge that we have divided the results into different categories. We have a town/city if we want to zoom into Cambridge. We have the developers and we also have the names of specific developments. You can then pick the appropriate filter that you would like to select and the mapMassBuilds Map will zoom and highlight the and you can see highlighted all the different developments that are selected by this filter. You can clear the filter at any time You can then go ahead and clear the filter by clicking the X to the left of the search barin the upper left hand filter. You also have the option to give you all the available filters by clicking the little funnel icon above the X in the upper left hand corner.

You can go to the individual filter in the case of the town or the city. You can then drill down and search for a specific one like Boston. Clicking the plus next to the filter will then enable that filter and the MassBuilds map will reflect the filter you have added. You can then further drill down into other filters if you would like to get a further subset of the MassBuilds developments in our database. For example you can show only completed developments in the City of Boston. Once you have fully filtered all your developments you can then go ahead and export all your developments to a CSV (which you can open in Excel or another spreadsheet software) by clicking the CSV icon in the lower right hand corner. Then a CSV file of all your developments will be conveniently downloaded to downloads folder  on your hard drive.
+++
## Submitting a New Development
In this video we will teach you how to create a new development in MassBuilds, the Metropolitan Area Planning Council's collaborative real estate development database. You should first navigate to the MassBuilds website at www.massbuilds.com. Once you are on the website you will be presented with a map of the Massachusetts area and you will be able to click the upper right hand corner to reveal the MassBuilds menu.

From the MassBuilds menu you will see your name if you are currently logged in, otherwise you will need to login first. After you see your name you will see an option to create a development. Click the "Create Development" icon and the form for creating an option to create a development will appear on the left side of the screen. 

The first thing you will want to do is pick an address where a development should be placed. Once you type in your development you will see a list of existing developments with a similar name or at a same address and an option to zoom in to the address on your map. Click the address and the map will zoom in. The orange dot will be at the center of your map and you will see a dotted line highlighting a parcel upon which a development can reside. You will also see the name of the parcel in gray text. The parcel that is initially highlighted may not be the parcel that was initially selected when you were searching and zooming to an address. So take a moment to note whether or not you are at the correct parcel.

If you are not, in this case I am not, you can click and drag the map with your mouse to put the dot over the correct parcel. At which point you have now placed the development in the correct spot. On the left side of the screen you will then see the rest of the form to create a development. You will need to fill out all the required fields which are highlighted in orange for you and you may fill out any of the darker fields that are not in orange to provide additional information to users about the development.

If you fill out a name, in this case Test Development, you can then enter a description about the development. [PAUSE 4s] You can pick a status and the required fields will be different depending on the status of the development. You will want to tell it what year the development was completed and then you will want to scroll down and say whether or not the development is a residential or commercial development or both. Then you will see several other fields pop up. You can enter the number of hotel rooms, in this case zero, and you can enter the public area, then you can enter values for the floor area of each of the use types. [PAUSE 3] You will see it automatically calculates the floor area percentages for the development. So we will just go down and finish filling in these fields. Once we have filled it in we will make sure all the floor area adds up to the appropriate amount then we can click "submit for review" and the development will be submitted for review by the MassBuilds team. Or if you are a verified user it will automatically be added to the map. You will then see a list of developments that will be submitted and you are done submitting your development.

